# Climate Claims: Finding the facts in a "post-truth" world
## Ocean Acidification
### By: Muhammad Amjad

This article on *Everything Climate* asserts that media and scientific claims pertaining to ocean acidification are mostly climate alarmism, and that current oceanic condition changes are miniscule and harmless. This is of particular interest as my climate change project is based on the declining populations of coral, how it is caused, and what can be done to eliminate the problem. The article’s claims that ocean acidification is not to blame for the current predicament opposes popular scientific consensus; thus, it is of great importance to fully understand the claims being made by this organization. Furthermore, the article also references several scholarly articles, which intrigued my curiosity as to how academic literature supports a widely held scientific claim, or perhaps how this research is artificially manipulated to suit the agenda of the *Everything Climate* website.

Upon initial inspection of the article, it appears to be substantive with several references to scholarly material. However, upon further examination, it is clear that the article lacks cohesive argumentation, and is very much deriving conclusions from improper thought processes. Specifically, the article misinterprets the conclusions and discussions set forth by the preliminary sources, and proceeds to address those arguments. This is an invalid approach and logical fallacy as it fails to confront the conclusions laid out by the academics, also known as a straw man fallacy. Before refuting the website’s claims, it is important to understand the characteristics of the article. It is clearly an editorial piece as it serves to persuade the reader of the diminutive effects of ocean acidification. The piece appears to be aimed towards the general public as many of the scientific concepts are deconstructed to the simple terms and conceptions, likely to match literacy levels amongst the readers. The authors make no mention of their occupation, experience, educational background, or even expertise. This is very alarming as an article addressing the scientific claims of other reputable individuals or organizations should provide some information about themselves so as to create a discourse that is based on validity and adequate credentials. Nevertheless, the article consistently cites reputable sources; thus, the conclusions set forth must be addressed so as to fully comprehend the validity of the article as a whole.

The primary misinterpretation that the article makes is suggesting that media and scientific claims of “the ocean is acidifying” is equivalent to “the ocean is close to acidic”. This is clearly untrue, but the article initially asserts that the mere mention of the word “acidifying” is done to create climate alarmism when the verb used is scientifically correct. Additionally, the article suggests that “the oceans are a long way from actually turning acidic” given that “since the beginning of the industrial revolution in 1850, the pH of surface ocean waters has fallen by 0.1 pH units”. This is a misleading use of statistics as the same source for this claims asserts that ocean acidity has increased by 25%. The writers suggest that this number is too small for consideration, but do not address the further claims made by climate scientists with regards to the forthcoming, negative effects. Furthermore, the article initially mentioned the dissolving of marine shells, but refuses to address these claims after expanding on it’s misinterpretation of the acidity claim, leaving the reader wondering what could account for this deleterious effect in the ocean. The article acknowledges it, but doesn’t elaborate on it, which perhaps is indicative of a lack of scientific understanding. Holistically, this short article misinterprets scholarly climate science conclusions, and supports the initial asserts with invalid arguments and logical fallacies to persuade the reader in the incorrect direction.
